Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nFoXCLi8FCc
Channel: Fireship

Yesterday, one of the most scandalous lawsuits in tech was revealed to the world. An AI hardware company named IO is suing another AI hardware company named IO. The former is a Googlebacked startup you've never heard of, while the latter is Johnny Ives mysterious company that was acquired last week by Open AI for a staggering $6.5 billion. On the surface, it looks like a battle between IO and IO, but in reality, it's a proxy war between OpenAI and Google. If you're confused already, I'll refer to the original company as IO and the company accused of stealing their name and IP as Altman IO. You see, Sam Olman thought he was playing 7D chess by throwing helicopter money at the legendary Sir Johnny IV, a guy who was considered one of the most powerful people at Apple, who gave products like the iPod, iPhone, and MacBook their visual identity. But this opening move just put the brand's future in jeopardy because now Altman IO is being sued for trademark infringement. And if we're to believe this startup, the allegations are absolutely unhinged. In today's video, we'll break it all down and take a look at the future AI hardware that nobody asked for. It is June 24th, 2025, and you're watching the Code Report. If you've been following the AI race, you may know that Sam Olman made a massive deal to acquire and hire Johnny I before an ungodly amount of money. As of right now, the deal is still on and Johnny will still get that bag. But before even revealing an initial product, the brand might need to pivot because it's being sued by a Googlebacked startup called IO. They've got 62 million in funding, a registered trademark, and 20,000 units ready to ship. But what even is it? On the website, it's a quote revolutionary new computer that doesn't need a screen. You can run apps by simply speaking to it. Now, I don't mean to be a downer, but so far it seems like people don't want devices like this. Rabbit and Humane Pin already tried similar concepts and failed miserably. Maybe this startup will get it right, but enter Sam Alman and Johnny IV, who just announced their collaboration to build mysterious voicecontrolled AI devices. They also called their product IO, and we don't know anything about it, but we can infer some additional details about it from the lawsuit. And this is where things get wild. In 2022, Sam Olman's investment fund met with IO, got their tech demos, but said no thank you. In addition, around the same time, Johnny Ives company also met with IO and saw their tech demos and said no thank you. Behind the scenes though, Alman and IV were keeping tabs on IO while allegedly buying their products and asking for design files. Then a few years later in 2025, OpenAI executives met with IO once again under the pretense of making an investment. They were shown the tech, the hardware, and the functionality, but once again said, "No, thank you. We're building our own slob." Then just weeks later, OpenAI released this cringe video, vaguely hinting at some future hardware product. What's crazy though is that Alman not only refused to make an investment in this startup, but incredibly he threatened that IO would sue IO to force IO to stop using the name IO. These allegations are ruthless, salacious, and outrageous. But that's what we've come to expect from Sam Alman. Unfortunately, it also puts a dark stain on the clean reputation of Johnny Iive, who allegedly participated in this devious plot. Only time will tell if they get to keep the name IO, but may the best hardware win. When it comes to software development though, we already have amazing tools like Warp, the sponsor of today's video. You probably know Warp for being the most intelligent terminal in the game. And with their brand new 2.0 release, it's starting to rival the biggest AI dev tools out there. You can now think of Warp as an agentic development environment. It comes with a state-of-the-art coding agent that can execute jobs autonomously, a code editor where you can write code alongside your agents, and an intelligent terminal allin-one. This means you can just tell Warp to build a specific feature or fix a bug, and it can do it all with multiple agents in parallel. It scored an impressive 71% on the S.E bench and 52% on terminal bench, which makes it one of the best among agent-based dev tools. Warp is free to use, but you can get two months free on their pro plan and a bunch of AI credits if you're one of the first 3,000 people to use the code fire ship at checkout. This has been the code report. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next 